mining open source software repositories


course goal: using machine learning. 


Problem 				| Data			| Clean link	|	Model (statistics)
Target buggy files for more testing	| -bug repo 		| Bug 56	|	- linear 
					| - version history 	|    |		|	- tree J48
					|  			|   Commit ##	|

Bugfile~complexity

write more complex files has 10x as many bugs as .... 


presentation 1 
slide 3
effects on number of defects 

continuous integration
turnover
refactoring
social interactions among devs
complexity of code 

statistics:
p-value   0.5  is valid
files size ....
magnitude of the difference
normalized data (linear regression)


grades 

soft practice exam 40%   (mid november) 

bug fix on an OSS project 20%

in class discussions and simple summaries of papers 15%   -paper presentation 

research paper including model of data  25% - 


alternatives to grading scheme ....  

experienced researcher ---can skip the bug fix project 
or weight from exam can be added to paper. 

excellent program 
fix more bugs, less on research project

must convince Peter of where you want to spend time and effort 


you can do it alone or group of 2 ... 



research project 

choose a problem (and related literature)
choose data and software product to study
analyze data (weka or R)
Write a four page, double column report

Presentation 

everyonde will pick and present their favorite paper (relate to research project)
Me next week ... 


Bug fix project 

contact 

Mozilla data - in a hard drive ... every single bug everything etc.... EXCELLENT TO KNOW . 



Mozilla came from Netscape, they first provided freely their code.


Latent structure ... go through a process where a dev do a commit and go through a new one ... 
modularity - calculating the smallest path between the people .... the areas stuff I am doing 

Cris Bird got this modularity 


bikeshed impact  --- trivial conversation leads to high peer review with lots of not interesting discussion (deviates the main goal of the issue subject)


opensource project?   source is freely available and is free for download 

what differentiates the opensource are the free licenses
GNU - general public license
Mozilla Publi license 
BSD license   

it is viral because if ex: I use the Linux code and I create my code ... I could not just sell it .. because it is viral .. it has become free because Linux is free . 


ways of making money  ---- ended here. 




 
